welcome to take two of today's am Alive
hopefully this one is actually working
that would be amazing and before I go
too far if somebody could confirm that
wou that we actually are alive that
would be amazing
anybody anybody William how we doing
we're on the countdown we are live so
I'm being told I'm getting conflicting
messages boys and girls but I'm gonna go
anyway all right so this weekend I'm
gonna be in fact tomorrow I'm going to
be at success live in Long Beach if any
of you are here in the Los Angeles area
do come down and join me it would be
amazing to see you guys as always
whenever I give a talk at the end of it
I'm going to be doing a endless Q&A
until all questions are answered the
last time at success live in Dallas I
was doing a Q&A until literally they
were tearing down the set so come down
get a selfie get your questions answered
it's always awesome to meet people from
the community so come on down and if
this feed is delivering value if you
would share it that would be amazing
that's how we grow this community
all right so in true EMA fashion I'm
gonna be taking your questions live both
on Facebook and on YouTube so submit
them now or as we go and I'm gonna get
through as many of these bad boys as
humanly possible all right with nice
concise answers so here we go first one
question from Jaleel do you do you do
morning routine everyday including the
weekends and the answer is no so I try
to do it Monday through Friday without
exception but invariably things happen
sometimes it's that I'm doing a Q&A
somewhere and you guys end up keeping me
out until 1:00 or 2:00 in the morning
which has happened more than once and
then I get to bed really late which
means that I'm waking up later which
means I have to condense the morning
routine the way that I do them is is
even that sort of fluctuates depending
on what's been going on in my life but
they usually get trimmed in the
following order depending on what's
coming up I will first kill off my
meditation
I will then kill off reading and I will
then kill off working out so those are
the things in that order that I kill off
base
priority and you don't know how much it
pains me to kill reading before I kill
working out but that's how important
that I think that is and I can always
make up reading later which because I so
enjoy reading I'll find that I'll make
room for it later even if I'm tired or
fatigued whatever I'll find time to put
it back in where it's working out if I
don't do in the morning then the chances
of me actually doing it are virtually
zero so that's how I prioritize them in
that order I would say though that my
full-blown morning routine I do probably
about 75% of the time and then the
remaining 25% of the time is some
truncated version but it is very very
rare that I don't do any of it
alright Facebook question from aria
Naru Zi I just got to know you because
of dr. Shefali that's amazing she's
amazing by the way can you tell me your
mission vision absolutely so my goal is
to address the dual pandemics of the
body in the mind quest was my way of
addressing what's going on with the body
though I can see that we're gonna be
doing a lot more here to impact theory
that has to do with health as well we're
about to launch a new health show and
the second pandemic is the pandemic of
the mind that is being very directly
addressed by impact theory so the
pandemic of the body people understand
is very visible think of it as all the
things that fall under the umbrella of
metabolic disease so not metabolic
syndrome which is one very specific
thing but metabolic disease everything
that's diet and lifestyle related the
other is the pandemic of the mind which
is a little bit harder for people to see
and understand because it's more or less
invisible but all sort of lump it into
the overly simplistic anxiety depression
and just sort of emotional this
fulfillment that's not a word at all but
you get where I'm going with that and I
believe that the way to address that is
by addressing belief system and I
believe the reason I use the analogy of
the the matrix all the time and our
stated mission at impact theory is to
pull people out of the matrix the reason
that I use that analogy is because to me
the matrix is all about belief it's a
about how people succumb to a limited
limiting belief system and I believe
that there is a way to get people out of
that and the way to get people out of
that at the most fundamental level at a
cultural level is through narrative
mythology fiction and that's how humans
assimilate truly disruptive information
so we're building a studio I used to
refer to it as a traditional narrative
studio except wanted people to
understand that we're gonna be making
movies TV shows comic books books video
games but the reality is we're actually
doing it in a very unconventional way so
for longtime viewers you're gonna hear
me stop referring to it as a traditional
studio and I'll have to find better
words but basically it's the 21st
century version of a studio which is
going to marry the social content that
we're doing now and we're about to
greatly expand our social content
presence we've got probably at least
three new shows coming your way most of
which we're gonna be doing on a weekly
basis I hedge my bets a little bit so I
need to see just how much time it's
really gonna take before I fully commit
to that but that will be the goal to
really do this on a weekly basis so that
would bring us to I don't know something
like seven or eight different weekly
shows that we're doing so really excited
about them and they're unlike an mo
which is really easy for us to produce
they're a little bit more production
heavy which is one of the reasons that
I'm sort of hedging my bets but I'm very
excited one of them is gonna be in
health and two of them at least will be
focused around media so really getting
to the heart of what we're doing on the
studio side of things so that should be
really exciting but all of it just to
wrap it in a nutshell is to pull people
out of the matrix
again a limiting belief system and give
them more empowering beliefs so that
they can go on and do whatever it is
that they want in their life to truly
actuate their potential and this is a
for-profit business and really sort of
Adar like the business core of
everything is merchandising so that's
the the primary revenue driver for us
okay Facebook question from Shane how do
you find the courage to launch a
business when you're struggling to pay
your bills working full time etc it's
interesting so because you use the word
courage I'm going to
at first and go back on that one cuz I'm
probably gonna need to reread that so I
want to address courage first so courage
really is not the and this is a Mark
Twain quote it's not the absence of fear
it's acting in the face of fear so I get
it everybody's gonna have fear whether
that's oh my God if I'm allocating this
time then you know am I gonna make
enough money am I going to be able to
make ends meet what if I fail it's gonna
be embarrassing will I damage my
reputation and that really is you have
to to be willing to move forward even
though you're afraid of those things and
this comes down to identity and belief
so what I was just talking about with
wanting to address people's limiting
beliefs with impact theory in general
the reason is it's so foundational so if
you start focusing on building a belief
system that is going to push you forward
and actually help you achieve your goals
you're just putting yourself in a much
more empowering position now the way to
do that is to start with identity
identity drives behavior so if you want
to change anything in your behavior such
as backing down when something makes you
afraid you need to start with the
identity of something as simple as
saying out loud and to yourself and to
other people when I say out loud I mean
to other people to say I'm the type of
person that so I'm the type of person
that even when I feel fear I move
forward now the thing you should be
moving forward towards is your goals
so again behavior follows identity so
I'm the type of person that has the that
always does and believes that which
moves me towards my goals so that is
another piece of your identity that's
really going to help push you past that
sort of hesitation and then also when it
comes to just a limited amount of time
or being tired because you're working
your job or whatever it is that becomes
that thing that that's holding you back
so it's not always fear it can be just
sort of raw time you got to make the
time and so this is where you really
have to prioritize and I have yet to
meet a human being that when I audited
their time I wasn't mortified so the way
that people spend their time is almost
always largely
active so I'll tell you right now if you
check your email that's just like
cardinal sin number one that's a very
reactive behavior so you want to use
habits you want to use routines in order
to really like freakishly optimize your
life so I heard an awesome quote from
Jeff Bezos the founder of Amazon someone
was asking for something of his time and
he said are you kidding I'm trying to
optimize my tooth brushing routine to
get more out of my day and I thought
that when you're like down to okay and
now how do I get more out of my tooth
brushing routine teeth brushing routine
I'm not sure which of those is right
then you know that you're really getting
down to the nitty-gritty so getting
really really good at demanding more of
yourself and optimizing your time those
are critical all right where we add here
okay Facebook question from Maria how do
you deal with being how do you deal with
people faking kindness how do you manage
to be self-motivated at all times
okay these are very different how do I
deal with people faking kindness I don't
even really care that's the truth I
don't care so if somebody's faking
kindness and you can't tell they're
faking and it ends up biting you in the
ass later I guess that would be
problematic nine times out of ten I can
tell when somebody's faking a and B when
I can't tell
I'm not overextending myself or relying
on other people I don't hold anybody
else to my standard so I just don't have
those kinds of expectations of other
people and not in a bad way like I just
I get it like I meet people with
compassion and empathy I understand it
they're having a hard enough time with
their own life and they probably want to
extend the kindness they probably have a
sincere desire to be kind and they may
be faking it either because they're in
their own grips of fear or they're
trying to get something out of me and
can you like blame them at the end of
the day like everybody's always trying
to make their own stuff come true and
they're leading with their selfish
desires and I fully get that and I don't
think that's bad I don't think it's a
great strategy by the way and I think
that real authentic connection is always
the way to go real kindness in fact I
was giving a talk yesterday at City
summit and one of the things that I said
in my talk is and because people say
this to me all the time
if you're an entrepreneur if you're a
networker one thing that's become really
popular to do now and it went from being
cool in the beginning and to now it's
it's getting a little bit gross and
trite is the what can I do to help just
let me know how I can help
and because usually you can feel that
the person they're not trying to really
truly deliver value that they see what
you're up to and they see a way that
they can be useful to you they're
thinking one or two steps beyond you and
to your point you can feel that and so
you have to be really really careful way
better strategy when you see a way to
help somebody go to them and instead of
saying the trite words of hey just let
me know how I can help which I get it is
so tempting and it comes from usually a
decent ish place but it's way better to
go and say this is how I think I can
help if that resonates with you let me
know and I'm prepared to act on it
immediately that is a way to really get
somebody's attention so be careful with
that how do you manage to be
self-motivated at all times I have a
compelling future so there is something
I'm trying to make come true in my life
that is so exciting to me that nobody
has to tell me to do it nobody has to
remind me I just really really want to
make it come true in my life and because
of that I'm pulled through so that's
something that I think people need to
spend a lot more time as developing
developing that you don't find it you
don't uncover it you're not an
archaeologist this is not about turning
within and seeing some mission for your
life that's laying dormant inside of you
that's not how it works it's like minor
areas of interest that have developed
simply from encountering things in the
world that you found interesting and you
have to develop those interests first
into fascinations and then ultimately
into a full-blown passion but you're not
gonna become passionate until you've
developed mastery so it's in the process
of actually gaining mastery getting good
at something seeing how useable it is in
your life how it makes you feel about
yourself techne as the ancient Greek
philosophers called it where you develop
a skill set that you've worked very hard
for and it has use to not only yourself
but to other people some greater good
purpose meaning when you're able to tap
into that
it's a necessary requirement for passion
so if you want to be pulled through
that's how you get there you've
developed a skill set that's gonna allow
you to help other people to bring
something into fruition that it's very
very exciting to you that will keep you
motivated and until you develop that
you're just not gonna have the degree of
motivation that you see in myself or
somebody else who's done a similar
amount of work alright YouTube question
from Johnny be Johnny be good just
started the three day fast because of
you my man in fact I'm reading something
about this it's called Auto I wrote it
down will you guys give me something to
look this up I'm so intrigued by this
Auto Fei Jie uh it's something like that
I'm gonna be quick but this is this is
good and this is the human body's
technique for eating itself Auto Fei Jie
I think that's how odd off a G probably
Auto Fei Jie aut o pH AG Y this is what
happens when you read things rather than
encounter them in spoken conversation
you don't always know how they're
pronounced but Auto Fei Jie which by the
way I read on the Instagram account of
dr. Peter attea we are living through I
want to pull the mic really close when I
have we're living through an amazing
time right now boys and girls social
media is still so undervalued it's
insanity dr. Peter Bhatia is like 3,000
followers on Instagram now much to my
dismay his Instagram account is all of
his personal interests hopefully we can
all guilt him into putting more of his
amazing learnings of science and
nutrition into his Instagram feed
but right now on Instagram you're only
competing with 3000 other people for the
attention of one of the greatest minds
working today in health and nutrition so
get on it find those people that are
undervalued build relationships if you
can like even just engage with our
content it adds more value than you
think so think about how you feel when
somebody likes one of your photos or
they comment on one of your photos
especially if it's a meaningful comment
so anyway I go to his page today and I
read the description in his Instagram
feed and it says that he one of his
obsession obsessions is Auto Fei Jie and
I was like the hell
is that so I start researching it and
realized that it is the clean up system
that the body uses to break down
diseased damaged old cells that is
trying to get rid of its clean up
process of the body now the body goes
through that process as a reaction to
stress and one of the way is just to
bring it all back round and my boy
Johnny be good is when you fast you put
your body through that stressor and it
begins to clean up the things in the
body more rapidly all right so you just
started a three-day fast thank you for
letting me go down that tirade for a
second you've inspired me to challenge
my mental strength I love that how can I
relate this mentality to change my
well-paying job to something I'm more
passionate about who those are sort of
unrelated so if I can draw a parallel it
would be if you really want to develop a
passion first of all well actually the
way you asked that I'm gonna assume that
you already have a passion so if you
already have a passion and it's just a
high financial risk to do it then your
mental discipline is gonna come from can
you live in a monkish style for a year
two years three years or more doing
something that makes you feel alive it's
actually a pretty small price to pay for
feeling alive so let's start with that
boys and girls the name of the game that
you're playing remember is not success
it's not money it's brain chemistry
plain and simple and the whole reason
that you're chasing money is because you
believe it will give you a certain brain
chemical state so rather than always
putting this stuff off make the demand
that you make money doing something you
love now what I find is most people
aren't willing to slog it out for a very
long time working their ass off in order
to really get good at something which at
the end of the day is the name of the
game so use that mental discipline that
you're developing through things like
fasting in order to live a more
monk-like life and that will be how
you're going to cross that chasm because
all you need to do to be able to go and
get a much lower paying job that makes
you feel alive and hopefully is a huge
investment in your passions and in your
future is to lower your expenses and
people act like there's just no way to
get out of the rat race but of course
there is you can cut you
or financial needs to the absolute
[__] quick and if you're bright
enough to even ask that question I
promise you can get a job that pays a
reasonable income and if you're willing
to just cut your expenses down to next
to nothing you can go a long way one of
my closest friends for since literally I
was a teenager is is a financial advisor
and what I found uh turley fascinating
about this guy he used to rent a room in
a house until he was almost 40 years old
even though he was making really good
money he rented a room in somebody
else's house okay let's all drink that
in for a second he's a financial adviser
he knows what to do with money he knows
how to make money he is one of the
smartest human beings I have ever met in
my life
but he never wanted to be beholding the
money so he would rent a room in a house
and just save save save save save for
decades and decades and now he's buying
property and he's renting that property
out so there are ways man but you just
have to be prepared to suffer vens is
the facts boys and girls I've never seen
anybody get anywhere I've seen people be
given stuff but I've never seen anyone
get anywhere extraordinary without being
willing to suffer and suffer a lot so
build that mental discipline and scale
your expenses back to the quick rent a
room in somebody's house be happy I used
to manage apartment complexes so that I
could get really discounted rent I was
living in Los Angeles in a two-bedroom
apartment for $400 a month
okay because I managed the apartment
complex I used to live for $100 a month
before that so for the same reason I was
managing apartment complexes and I
actually lived rent-free for a while
before that again managing apartment
complexes so while it sucked because
you're never at home you're always at
work it was how I was able to afford
somewhere and not be beholden to money
all right
YouTube Bobby casted innov casted enough
that sounds about right
hey Tom how do you get enough attention
to your work if it is subtlebydesign so
it gets drowned out by clickbait and
flavor of I'm guessing the month
so that cuts off at flavor of tea all
right so this is an awesome question I
want everybody to listen real [__]
well because you're not gonna like the
answer and it is the absolute gospel
truth
two things one you have to be so good
they can't so good they can't ignore you
so if you're being ignored it's because
your [__] is not good enough let's start
with that it's a hard truth we all have
to accept it I'm as guilty as anybody
else
when startup Theory didn't get an
audience I had to own well [__] the
thing that I thought I was gonna be the
best at for whatever reason I'm the
worst at so go figure
all right but I didn't waste time
blaming anybody else by the way I just
said okay I have not figured this out
I've not cracked this nut I've not made
it good enough and so we rapidly moved
on iterated found out what was working
developed other shows and and just got
better and then number two you have to
play the game you have to play the game
so I get it you want the world to
respond to your stuff because you like
it but it's about developing things that
other people like so for instance I'm
just talking about this earlier today I
prefer to do the long-form content where
over an hour I answer two questions
that's more enjoyable for me but you
guys have spoken when I do a tama style
and I'm super [__] like succinct boom
boom boom get the answer done and answer
15 or 20 questions in the hour it just
performs better so I do that also you
need to understand the game with
marketing and advertising you have to do
it works you have to get the attention
so yeah it there's a difference this is
what I used to tell my film students you
have to decide if you want to make love
or masturbate and here's the truth
masturbation is a solo game enjoy it if
that's your gig enjoy absolutely
fantastic you don't have to think about
anybody but yourself if you want to make
love on the other hand you need to think
about your partner so if you're creating
content and it's meant to be the making
love equivalent you have to think about
what your audience wants you have to
look at what they respond to you can't
just create what you want so I'm a huge
believer in scale which means at all
times all I'm doing is making love and
so I care very deeply about what you
guys are responding to what you like
what you don't like and I'm gonna adjust
the content accordingly because my goal
is to add value to your life
can't add value if you don't give a [__]
so that's an important lesson all right
Brandon Arnold from Facebook if you have
a disorder ie D realization disorder I
don't know what that is so I'll be very
curious to see if I'm gonna be useful to
you here would you keep hustling through
it or go into hiding and fix yourself
for a year or so one I think the answer
is always get good at something so I'm
gonna have to reframe the question
because I don't know what derealization
disorder is but 100 percent the hustle
in this scenario is getting good putting
your head down doing the work becoming
extraordinary so yeah to me they are one
in the same but just putting yourself
out there if that's not delivering
results and you think you'll get more
results by going inward by getting the
alone time that you need I think that's
the absolute right answer so and I don't
know if you're asking from like a
linchpin perspective you want to be a
lynchpin employee or if you're thinking
more as a online marketer of some kind
and you want a personal brand or
something
so either way the answer is the same so
you need to get good you need to get
effective and if the best way for you to
develop that skill set and get effective
is to essentially shut out the outside
work for a while go in practice research
whatever it is get better go to therapy
whatever that answer is for sure 100%
that's the right answer get good yeah
break it down Wow there you have it
that's brand new to me but yeah I would
say work on that first cuz it could be a
stumbling block or something that slows
you down or holds you up for a very long
time also that could be something if
other people are struggling with that
and you really have an opportunity to
like I've never even heard of this and I
live in the world of mental health so if
you can go out become an expert on that
and then come back and really help
people that could be extraordinary
alright next question
Benjamin James hurons from Facebook ello
from London it's actually written like
that
Tom blush do you have any golden nugget
tips for successfully crowdfunding a
project well I will say that number one
make sure that your
your product is meeting a need is
something that people really have pent
up demand for so give you an example I'm
on the board of a company called mo Deus
health mo Deus health has launched one
of the most successful Kickstarter and
not Kickstarter they were IndieGoGo one
of the most successful IndieGoGo
campaigns I've ever heard of I'm sure
there have been bigger but this one was
amazing and they it is a weight loss
device so hey you know there's huge
demand for that and they put together an
awesome team so it's the CEO is a
neuroscientist and surgeon on the board
they had v/s Ramachandran who was one of
the foremost neuroscientists in the
world he's somebody that's inspired the
life out of me that dr. drew on their
board I'm on their board and they put
together some awesome video content and
so when they launched it was they were
laying out the research but doing it in
a way that was really accessible and
they were very good by the way at taking
advice and did a lot of things like
offering a money-back guarantee and all
of that and had a product that really
spoke to the market so a product that if
it's real is exceptionally good that
there's huge demand for and then put
your marketing materials together in a
way that is very very very compelling
and if you can get some social
influencers that can back it up and help
you generate a ton of buzz leading up to
that even better they also hired a PR
agency the PR agency helped them get a
lot of attention right on that so that's
the one that I've been involved with
that was insanely successful just to
give you some numbers they had a goal of
$50,000 which they did in 24 hours they
doubled that in 48 hours and hit a
hundred K and then within 72 hours they
were at 800,000 and then not long after
that they crossed the million mark so
they just smashed it they were going for
50,000 they ended up getting over a
million so it's just insane so it's a
it's certainly a winning formula all
right Marie Lenna Evette Hernandez
Facebook how do you stay positive
after a breakup okay so first and
foremost
way that I look at everything is it's
all my fault but I don't condemn myself
for anything I'm not looking to beat
myself up I'm simply trying to stay in
control so I'm gonna ask myself what did
I do to create this situation did I
choose poorly was this somebody that was
that didn't have a growth mindset which
to me is like the absolute foundational
thing if you want to be in a
relationship with me of any kind by the
way you have to have a growth mindset
otherwise it's there's just yeah it's
gonna be a nightmare that's a whole
nother answer you have to have a growth
mindset so did I do something poor in
the selection process second one of the
most important things in any
relationship is to feel like somebody's
number one so did I do that so anyway I
won't take you down all those things but
that's how I'm going through it right
I'm not beating myself up I'm just
legitimately looking for ways to improve
I want to stay in control because for me
the way to get over the bad feelings is
to know that I can change it's when it
feels like it is a permanent life
sentence where it gets really hard to
deal with that emotion right because if
somebody says you're not good enough for
me let's just take a really gnarly
example you're not good enough for me
that is a brutally difficult pill to
swallow but if you can flip it and go
you're not good enough
yet and not about that person because if
I got rejected like that the honest
answer is I flip a switch in my head and
I just move past them I don't allow
myself to get into an abusive cycle of
wanting and craving and needing their
approval so I would immediately okay
we're done it's got to be a learning
lesson so I'm gonna look really hard at
what I did but I am NOT gonna be going
back to that person and seeking their
approval that that to me is really
really important so it's what I call the
impossible to please father syndrome
which is a game I don't play and I
highly encourage everybody to not play
that it is when people when either they
legitimately as a tactic withhold
affection you'll get into an emotional
death spiral if it was a relationship
where they're withheld affection for
whatever reason just because the
relationship became dysfunctional
through no fault of their own whatever
or it's a manipulative tactic that they
use either way it doesn't matter I don't
play that game
it
it is an emotionally dangerous dangerous
game but I would be doing the internal
work to make sure that I'm better
equipped to have a successful
relationship the next time so I'm
looking at what I've done I am getting
reoccurred ISM they've given me is not a
permanent sentence that's really hugely
important I believe at anytime I can
improve and get better in any direction
that I want so that is all very
uplifting and then I would just start
refocusing on all the things that are
great about being single and just
cultivate in yourself optimism quite
frankly so you have to understand that
the the chemical state that you're in in
a breakup is just that it's a chemical
State and so you need to do things to
get you out of that so I'm gonna be
watching comedies I'm gonna be going out
with the friends that make me laugh I
made just straight go to comedy shows
like legitimately anything that I can do
to change my brain chemistry probably
gonna start eating better I'm gonna
exercise more it's all the classic
things that people do after a breakup
when you're gonna look better which is
gonna make you feel better about
yourself to exercise is just amazing for
mood optimization and then three if you
get your diet right the loop between the
serotonin system of your brain and your
gut is gonna be in a way better place
and all of these things are gonna help
you uplift your mood but I would just
recognize that my emotions are I will
treat them as a lie so I don't need to
if it's making me sad I don't need to
believe in that I can change my brain
chemistry I can do almost mechanical
things to get myself out of that
neurochemical state and into a positive
place so that's what I would do all
right
khaila Wilburn youtube can you give
specific times you think being selfish
is okay specific times when you think it
is not alright so I'm a huge believer in
aligning selfish desires so I won't say
that there's any time where being
selfish isn't okay so for instance with
my wife which is the person that I'm the
most giving of where I'm constantly
asking like you know can I do something
for her even if it costs me but even
that I want a good relationship with her
because she makes me feel like her
number one which is the most important
relationship in my life so it is
ultimately a very selfish act
I'm doing it because I want that
relationship in my life which actually
helps because then I don't I'm not
feeling like a martyr which I don't
think is a healthy place for people to
live so reminding myself that I'm doing
this because it's something that I want
for myself now because I want this
amazing relationship in my life I want
to feel like her number one I want to
give her reasons to feel good which I
have a code that mandates that I make
her feel better about herself when she's
with me than when she's not with me
so wanting to align with my own code and
all of those things are ultimately
selfish acts so when you frame
selfishness in that way where it is
actually something selfish that you're
doing to really make other people feel
good then you don't fall prey to martyr
syndrome you always remind yourself to
take care of yourself because I think
that when people are always putting
other people ahead of them that can also
be very very toxic so taking care of
yourself making sure that you're
fulfilled that you're happy before you
start worrying about other people is
always the right answer and then you
know when you have a code that is you
being selfish and at the same time
taking care of other people and and what
I mean being selfish about your code is
your code should be one of the most
important things in your life so
adhering to your code you should be
doing for yourself and nobody else so
whenever you're doing that it's sort of
intrinsically selfish but at the same
time I believe people should have a code
that is watchful of other people and
makes people feel good about being
around them so on and so forth
alright naturale leas Oh from YouTube
how do you personally stop running what
I call tapes in your head about your
past
what how do you replace them with
alright so here's the thing for me
everything comes down to I do and
believe that which moves me towards my
goals period so I don't allow myself to
do or believe anything that doesn't move
me towards my goals so obsessing over my
past is useful I will do it if obsessing
over my past is not useful I won't do it
and here's the truth about obsessing
over the past it's almost never useful
so but I'm not obsessing over the past
simply because it doesn't have a lot of
utility so that is a very easy way for
me to let myself off the hook because
people feel this
like weird obligation to punish
themselves for things that they did
badly in the past or to relive traumas
and for me once I put at the core of my
belief system that I would only ever do
that which moved me towards my goals
then it was like oh well I'm not gonna
focus on that because it doesn't align
with my belief system and so even though
my brain is coughing up that notion are
wanting to punish me for something that
I had done or and this is crazy that
someone else did to me that I'm ashamed
of right so people get in that weird
[__] loop so recognizing that it is
not at all in any way shape or form
useful I'm going to discard it and I
found that that made it okay to stop
doing so that's a really really powerful
technique that I've used and hopefully
it will serve you as well what do I
replace them with things that move me
towards my goals so my belief system is
built around entirely things that are
empowering and the way that I get them
to stick is largely through repetition
where I'm literally just repeating it to
myself I do and believe that which moves
me towards my goals and a host of other
things in fact if you go to impact
Theory comm right now you see that I
have the 25 point belief system that is
the belief system that I run everything
through one of them being that we do and
believe that which moves us towards our
goal so go now and download that all
right miles Drake from YouTube what is
the best tactic to improve your neuro
chemistry would absolutely love you
taking this all right so neuro chemistry
is so multifaceted it depends what neuro
chemical state you're trying to create
so that will determine it I'll just go
with happy for lack of a better word
this one has a lot of hooks that you can
tap into so the first one is if you fake
a smile long enough it becomes real so
if I'm in a piss-poor mood one of the
first things that I'll do is force
myself to laugh out loud and I have
found that for me about seven to 10
seconds of laughing out loud I can't
stay in a bad mood just neurologically
impossible it comes from the mirror
neuron system where we see like if you
look at somebody else and they're
smiling you'll find yourself smiling to
match their emotion and
then that allows you to internalize it
so there's this weird feedback loop
between just the muscle skeletal system
we're holding your posture in a certain
way has certain neurological outcomes so
you can really sort of manhandle your
way into that so happiness is one of the
ones that I found has a lot of those
hooks so I'll change my posture I'll
watch a comedy I'll force myself to
laugh out loud I'll hug my wife which
has the release of oxytocin you can do
things that trigger dopamine so what are
the things that excite you play video
games like that's something that works
really well for me I'm reading I love to
read when I find something that
fascinates me I find that all of my
anxiety that like fascination for me as
an anxiety killer and one of the ways
that especially in the early days of
impact Theory when it was like nerve
wracking to do the interviews I would
start studying the person in the hopes
that I would find something that about
them that really fascinated me and then
I knew it that I could do the interview
around that that and doing the interview
around something that fascinated me just
dropped all the other the anxiety out
the window also meditating is a huge one
all right
Blaise Pittman face book how important
do you believe mass awakening of
self-awareness and self-confidence in
humanity is to us in our children's
future holy hell alright this is a big
question let me really give you a real
answer I think it would be awesome I
think it will take generations and at
the same time it is the absolute mission
at the core of my life to which I'm
willing to dedicate the rest of my life
and my fortune so but to really
understand me you have to understand
that hiding in that question is like
something that also makes me deeply
uncomfortable and the reason is I
believe in looking at big problems like
that in a very real way and I think the
reality of what you're calling a mass
awakening there there are cultural
shifts are real and I think that you
would have a very hard time getting
people to agree
what the mass awakening should be my own
take on it is merely that people
discover that they have essentially
limitless potential and that they
believe in themselves enough to pursue
the process of skill acquisition in
order to do things that right now most
people believe to be extraordinary or
impossible I hope one day people take as
self-evident that we can do it and that
no longer does geography or
socio-economic realities of where you're
born influence what you ultimately do
with your life that's sort of that not
sort of an annoyance couching that that
is exactly my vision for the mass
awakening but I think that the truth is
that that takes multiple generations and
you have to find a way to do it where
people are antagonistic against the
change and they can't help but change
which is why I'm attacking it from the
perspective of media because that is the
books we read the stories were told the
characters we look up to the movies that
we get obsessed with the TV shows they
all feed into this silent belief system
and what your parents tell you is the
biggest part of that so I understand
that you've got to get people when
they're young give them a belief system
that's empowering and then it's gonna go
on ultimately to be what they tell their
kids and so now as that begins the stack
and stack and stack generation after
generation you can really have
significant influence but you're
fighting against a lot of world events
it's gonna be [__] hard
so when I'm honest I really think of it
as I'm a filtering mechanism and I'm
trying to get to the people that
resonate with my message now I don't
ever think it's gonna be an entire
generation at once I think this stuff is
gonna have been flow I think it's you
know gonna be one of these I just hope
that over time the general trajectory is
up and not down or stagnant so that's
the truth it would be amazing if we
could snap our fingers and make it
happen I just don't think that's
realistic given the realities of the
human animal and the butterfly chaos
effects of the world
alright Brett English face book what's
your opinion on GMOs there's a lot of
conflicting information and I would like
your opinion on if you eat them yourself
or you stick to organics okay so first
we have to recognize organic is
different than GMO so GMO
genetically modified organisms I eat the
living daylights out of GMOs they're
probably for the most part okay I don't
think we know enough yet to put any like
real hard stamps and let me tell you if
something compelling comes out I'd be
all for it I don't consider myself an
expert in the global impact of removing
GMOs but what seems true at a high level
is that you wouldn't be able to feed the
world without GMOs without crops that
are resistant to certain things that
destroy them I want to say bacteria but
I'm not even entirely sure what ends up
killing a lot of crops so but I know
that they genetically modify them to
make them more resilient they they are
crossing them genetically with things
that have already been around so it's
like crossing an avocado with wheat it's
not that but you get what I'm saying
it's not like stuff is in fact what was
it like a Brazil nut is one of the
things that's most commonly crossbred
with grains to make them more resistant
resilient I think that's accurate but
don't hold me that we are officially
outside of what I really feel confident
in explaining but that's my gut instinct
is that it it isn't the biggest concern
that we face I'm Way more freaked out by
what's going on in the microbiome and so
I look at GMOs from that like does it
have an adverse effect that we can't yet
tell on the microbiome and it may and if
it does and we should try to avoid it
but for right now I eat the life out of
them I do not think about them at all
now organic on the other hand I'm
becoming more and more intrigued by I am
way concerned that the definition of
organic right now is more marketing than
reality so when I say organic what I'm
really talking about is things that are
eating as close to an evolutionarily
consistent diet as possible so if you
know the animal meats and proteins that
we consume for millennia weren't eating
grains and now all the sudden they are
if they weren't getting antibiotics
injected and now all this than they are
that stuff gives me pause I don't go way
out of my way to avoid it but man the
more I learn about the microbiome the
more
I'm trying to fix my wife's problem the
more I'm gonna be honest I think this
stuff is gonna become a bigger and
bigger deal and then I'm gonna make her
try weirder and weirder stuff and then
I'm starting to think about like
grass-fed instead of grains like so I
can't tell you how open I am to
radically overhauling everything that I
think about food and this is coming from
a guy that built a nutrition company but
I think when you get dogmatic real
problems in sue so I'm excited about all
the things that I'm learning and we're
gonna be doing a show around health
specifically for that reason and by the
way speaking of things that I mentioned
at the beginning of the show but you may
be just joining us if this is adding
value to your life please do share it
and by the way I'm gonna be speaking
live tomorrow at Success live in Long
Beach so check that out you can learn
more about it at success.com success
magazine com success mag dot-com I can't
believe I don't know this success
live.com okay success live.com you can
find out about it there to get tickets
and all that good stuff as always I'll
be doing my endless Q&A at the end of my
talk so I'll stay as long as there are
questions to answer I'm all about those
selfies homie so if you see me there
let's grab a selfie all I ask is that
you tag me and you post it that's how we
build this audience so yeah all right
next question
Sasha Crespi from Facebook loved the
amma you just posted from the 24 hour
impact a thon thank you question how do
I develop a real sense of urgency and
how do I use the darkness to fuel new
more painful behaviors thanks don't
scroll off this one all right how do you
get develop a real sense of urgency so
this comes from a compelling future I
was talking about that earlier my
urgency all comes from I actually want
to pull people out of the matrix that
that would one make me feel very good
about myself
- it's so [__] cool to think that all
the things that I've been learning for
decades and decades can actually help
other people that by the way every day
I'm trying to learn more people my life
is boring as [__] to film I know because
we tried to film it and it basically is
me staring at a computer and reading
books all day but when I think about how
much impact
that's having on people how many dm's I
get a people who are like the content
has changed my life that's what really
pushes me and drives me it is a concept
called technique when you work your ass
off for something to get good at
something that is uniquely you that
other people cannot do and you're able
to use that to serve other people it it
does something to your sense of
fulfillment that I cannot even begin to
tell you so
that is [__] awesome so having a
future where you're like dude I can
actually move towards that and really
bring benefit to other people's lives
and just feel [__] good about Who I
am because I'm getting stronger and more
powerful by the day by putting in a
whole lot of hard work that is
fulfillment at its finest and when I say
that the game that you're playing is
brain chemistry that's what I'm talking
about that sense of fulfillment that
sense of being used that sense of
growing more powerful that sense of
gaining mastery that sense of putting in
energy and getting a result from that
energy of becoming more capable of
something that's why I'm so [__]
obsessed I'm so obsessed with the human
ability to exercise their potential to
not have potential but to actually
actuate it that to me is the juice of
life like that's the whole point so
because I believe I can actually pull
people out of the matrix oh god this is
a little it isn't gross people always
couch this [__] look I'm not being
arrogant in this but this is how like if
you can think like this it will [__]
supercharge you it's like Schindler's
List right I'm looking at it going how
many people can I help how many people
and I have unfortunately as of right now
I am going to [__] die which I hate
that and I really hope somebody solves
that [__] problem but for now I get
it I'm on a path to death so because I
unfortunately have to currently accept
that reality or go out and do something
about it myself which I don't feel is my
mission in life I've got to move as fast
as I can to help as many people as
humanly possible so because that is so
exciting to me and yeah that's how you
create that urgency and every day that
I'm not the person that I want to become
I'm just not able to help enough people
and right now I'm not the person that I
know that I can become so I've got to
work [__] fast to get out there and
do that and also while I'm not I don't
consider myself a highly competitive
person like once you want to win then
things really start to get interesting
and I want to win I want to win I want
to be I want to be the best at pulling
people out of the matrix ever which has
I'm hiding a whole lot of things in that
but because of the format of the M I'm
not gonna go down those rabbit holes but
I want to be great I want to be the
great test all right
darkness the darkness will serve you and
here's what I find darkness is way more
powerful than the light but it's very
acute you can only use it for really
small amounts of time and I don't know
why the human animal is wired this way
but the truth is if I want you to be
able to endure more pain what I and
they've done Studies on this I'm not
making this [__] up if I want you to be
able to endure more pain what I have to
let you do is get angry and if you let
people yell and cuss out loud they can
endure something like 30% more pain so
that's the darkness it's a very simple
way of explaining it so when I need what
I really need to show up and I'm [__]
exhausted and I can't imagine taking
another step I am not thinking about the
beautiful things in my life I'm thinking
about the [__] that want to see
me fail I'm thinking about the people
that will laugh and dance on my grave
and I will not let them have that
victory I will Rob that from them and so
in those moments that comes in and it is
super [__] powerful and it will let
me go farther than I ever thought that I
could go but it is very finite and if
you keep investing in the darkness it
will begin to corrode you and it's like
anything in the mind and the body a
little bit can be awesome too much as
destructive they say that the dose makes
the poison so if you take too much of
something it can kill you but if you
take just a little bit you can have
what's called a hermetic effect where a
little bit of stress and strain and
damage can actually be powerful so
that's how you use it all right next up
four minute mark all right we'll get at
least one more holden mc6
from youtube you have stated that your Y
or stretch goal for starting quest was
the end metabolic disease do you believe
that you've accomplished this or did you
move on to
impact theory because of a newfound why
so definitively I hope anybody would
slap me about the head neck and chest if
you ever hear me claim as of today that
we've ended metabolic disease because
clearly we have not we have taken but
the most minor of strides towards doing
that and the reason that I came over to
impact theory is because one quest is
going and I think it's amazing and I
think it's gonna continue to crush and
to my partners and I did not exactly
share a vision I really believed that
personal branding was going to become
bigger and bigger and that I wanted to
do that with inquest but it was going to
become a very expensive endeavor and to
drag them along on that expensive
endeavor was not going to be fair to
them also they're amazing
at what they're doing and so they're
gonna keep running with the company so
it just made sense from my perspective
that because I want to address both the
pandemic of the body and the pandemic of
the mind but it wasn't going to be easy
or cheap to do within the framework of
quest because people knew us as a
protein bar company my partners wanted
to stay focused on the food I wanted to
expand to the brain it's not very fair
to drag people along to do that so it
just made more sense for us to say you
guys keep doing what you're doing and
I'm gonna go start impact Theory so that
was why I did that was I think was just
an amazing time it was an amazing 14
year journey that ultimately culminated
in quest didn't start with quest but
ultimately culminated in quests I'm
insanely proud of it consider myself the
chief evangelist for the company yeah
but that's why I started impact Theory
all right Andrew cam YouTube you
mentioned a monk like life I can
sacrifice my lifestyle but how can I
sacrifice such a lifestyle for my family
I also have a job that pays too much to
leave but I'm unhappy let's talk about
all the traps in that question let's
start with the most obvious I have a job
that pays too much to leave that's
that's a choice and I fully respect that
choice and I think it's a very valid
choice but if you're going to stay no
that it is a choice that you absolutely
could quit that while it will probably
make everyone in your family super
[__] tense that there are ways for
you guys to live on less money
if it means either homeschooling public
school if they're not already in public
school whatever the case may be there
there are a host of very valid life
choices being made by a whole host of
people right now that require less money
to live and get by but I do not want to
diminish that would be terrifying and is
one of the reasons that I don't have
children so please don't let this sound
flippant I just want you to know that it
is a choice it isn't a trap but if
you're gonna stay which again I fully
respect that but if you're gonna stay
reframe it and you've got to find a way
to be happy because it does not make
sense the number one predictor of your
children's future success and happiness
is not how much money you make
hopefully that seemed self-evident I
will look up the study that I found that
in but that is not the number one
predictor of their future success and
happiness
what is is your happiness which is
utterly shocking to me until you break
it down and think about it's not the
amount of quality time that you spend
with them it's what you're teaching them
about life if you're giving them a
pessimistic attitude optimist do way
better in terms of job satisfaction job
performance rising up amount of money
that they make them is crazy how
optimism predicts success so if you're
coming home you're miserable what you're
teaching them is that you hate your job
life is just a sick [__] sandwich and
every day is another bite they're gonna
carry that forward they will adopt that
as their view in life and thusly will
struggle to get ahead and find something
that they can be passionate about that
makes them feel alive if the game that
you're playing is truly brain chemistry
it doesn't matter what you teach your
kids about making money what matters is
whether you teach them that you can and
should make the demand that what you do
for a living makes you come alive so yes
be very very careful it is a choice to
say it doesn't make too much money to
leave I have been in that situation I
cut my I didn't have kids
I get it but I cut my money in 1/3 when
we started quest with no sense of where
it was gonna go my wife and I had to get
rid of one of our cars live with a
single car I used to bum rides some of
this before
uber and lyft I used to bum rides off my
employees that's real we never left the
house
never but I mean dude we almost never
left the house literally for almost two
years so there's just other than to go
to work there are things that you can do
to cut it to the quick and if you're an
amazing bundle of energy and your kids
just can't bear to be apart from you
because you're so much [__] fun and
you're in such a good mood and you're so
happy I promise like the money is just
the last thing that they're gonna be
thinking about all right and then I'm
also a huge believer that if you do that
and you focus on something that you love
and that makes you feel like you're
coming alive and you work and get better
over time you can build that into a real
[__] success financially okay with
that we're at the end of the amma i'm
getting a highlighted yellow thing that
says end of emma so we got to tap out
guys thank you so much for joining me if
this is added value in any way shape or
form please do share it that's how we
build this community and we are growing
fast and that is all because of you guys
and i am insanely grateful the whole
team here is grateful thank you so much
because of you guys we will hopefully
actually be able to make our dream of
pulling people at scale out of the
matrix a reality and we're gonna do it
by building a studio all right guys
thank you so much this is a weekly show
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
take care